Add PyCon CZ 2019 summary (#56)
pyvec/blog.python.cz: content/2019-09-23_PyConCZ_wrap_up_summary.md

*We plan to keep English as the main language but we’re considering trying to attract more beginners by having an extra Czech-language programme for beginners. This should not limit the enjoyment of the event by foreign attendees, as they tend to be more advanced Pythonistas.*

### Gender

We had 32 talks of which 25 (78 %) were by men and 7 (22 %) by women. At workshops, there were 14 tutors in total, of which 12 (86 %) were men and 2 (14 %) were women. In total we had 41 people talking or leading a workshop of which 7 (17 %) were women.

Regarding all attendees, there were 77 % men and 23 % women, a bit less than in 2018 but more than PyCon CZ 2017.

*For 2020 we would like to promote PyCon CZ as more interesting for women speakers.*

### Code of Conduct Report

The Code of Conduct was kept the same as in the previous years, based on the Conference anti-harassment policy from the Geek Feminism Wiki page and edited to be as specific to our event as possible.

Agreeing to the Code was mandatory when buying the ticket.

Two contact persons (male and female) were assigned.

Attendees were reminded of the Code in the opening speech of each day and on the badge they were wearing.

> One incident regarding tasteless commentary about a different programming language during a presentation was reported this year. The reporter was assured PyCon CZ doesn’t identify with the message. Next day MC emphasized we all should treat each other nice. The staff followed up with the presenter about the inappropriate remark. Presenter expressed an apology on their social networks after the conference.

Reviewer: Co je MC?

Reviewer 2: Master of Ceremonies

Reviewer 2: Souhlas, to by asi chtelo rozepsat.

Reviewer: Aha. Jsem si říkal, že magnetofonová kazeta to asi nebude, Master of Ceremonies je taky blbost... 😄

Reviewer 2: Taky jsem slysel tomu rikat "microphone controller", ale to nema to spravne dekorum :D

Author: Můžete přímo zde navrhnout změnu.

Author: Změnit třeba na `moderator` nebo nechat tak?

Author: Vyřešeno Petrem.

> One incident regarding tasteless commentary about a different programming language during a presentation was reported this year. The reporter was assured PyCon CZ doesn’t identify with the message. Next day MC emphasized we all should treat each other nice. The staff followed up with the presenter about the inappropriate remark. Presenter expressed an apology on their social networks after the conference.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One incident regarding tasteless commentary about a different programming language during a presentation was reported this year. The reporter was assured PyCon CZ doesn’t identify with the message. In the next day's announcements, we emphasized we all should treat each other nice. The staff followed up with the presenter about the inappropriate remark. Presenter expressed an apology on their social networks after the conference.
```

2. Miro Hrončok – #! Bang, bang!
3. Miroslav Šedivý – A Day Has Only 24±1 Hours

### Most positive mentions

Each of these things received a positive mention by over 20 % of those who responded:

* Venue / Lower Vítkovice area / City of Ostrava
* People / friends / socializing
* Food & coffee & tea

### Most negative mentions

26 % of responders reported no negative issues at all. Most often mentioned issue was lunch distribution (18 % of responders), 16 % didn’t enjoy non-technical, „non-practical“ and beginner-oriented talks. Technical problems with audio/video during talks were an issue reported by 12 % of attendees.

### Enjoyed and plan to come back

94% of respondents reported having enjoyed the conference and 83 % would like to attend next year.

### Takeaways

We take attendees’ feedback seriously. In the end, we make PyCon CZ for them. Our own observations were similar to the reported feedback and while some of them will be harder to address than others, we will try our best to make PyCon CZ 2020 better. Some solutions are already outlined in this post.

### Photos

![photographer]({filename}/images/2019-09-23_PyConCZ_DSC_3817.jpg)

> * [Our professional conference photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/dZ4ATCBesNL9cCEy9)

Reviewer 2: Koukam ze je tam cca 50 fotek. Ty ostatni nesplnuji nase pozadavky, nebos tam dal jenom highlights, @frenzymadness ?

Author: Jen ty nejlepší bez záběrů na konkrétní lidi atp. Jako přehled asi stačí, řekl bych.
